# Cluster workload estimator

## Requirements

1. In order to run the YAFSsimulation scripts is necessary to have python2.7 and the libraries specified in the YAFS project repository, incluiding the YAFS library.

2. In order to run the analysis files is necessary to have python3.6 or later version and tensorflow, pandas, numpy and matplotlib libraries. 

The simulation implemented in this repository simulates a computing cluster using Yet Another Fog Simulator (YAFS). The goal is to model cluster parameters such as memory usage by using time-series forecasting. With this purpose a simulation containing different Apps deployed on a cluster with different interconnected nodes is constructed.

## Description

The tests or experiments are divided in two different parts. In the first part YAFS is used to build a simulated computing cluster and to generate cluster telemetry data. The the data generated by the YAFS simulations is saved in .csv files. The second parto of the test is performed in a jupyter notebook, called "ts_analysis_X" in each test. The notebook used the previously created data to build a LSTM model capable of predicting or estimating the future workload of the cluster (in some of its nodes). Furthermore, this second analytical part attempts to anticipate cluster failures by indentifying patterns in the workload telemtry data that could lead to a node overload scenario.

## YAFS simulation scripts

The repository is divided in different tests. In each test the YAFS simulation is used to build a computing cluster with an specific topology. Besides, the memory and processing capacity of the nodes varies from one test to another. Each test has a goal of increasing complexity w.r.t the provious one. Most of the code from different tests is used in the following tests. However, some changes and enhacements are introduced. Further information about the tests is described in the begining of the "testX.py" file of each test folder.

Some of the extra features included in the last tests are noisy data, multivariate data used for multivariate analysis, etc.

## Analysis scripts

The processing of the data and the analysis of the time-series is developed in a jupyter notebook file for each test "ts-analysis.ipynb". This files are only found from Test 4 since is when the analysis part started. As stated, they attempt to estimate future workload in the cluster. Moreover, the LSTM are built to identify possibles patterns in the workload telemtry data that could lead to a node overload scenario.

## Requirements

1. In order to run the YAFSsimulation scripts is necessary to have python2.7 and the libraries specified in the YAFS project repository, incluiding the YAFS library.

2. In order to run the analysis files is necessary to have python3.6 or later version and tensorflow, pandas, numpy and matplotlib libraries. 
